README.md, before:

# Il2CppDumper
Modified version of Il2CppDumper allows you to dump methods of UserAssembly.dll of the game Genshin Impact

NOTICE: The global-metadata.dat of the game Genshin Impact has been encrypted, you need to dump decrypted file from memory before use this tool.

中文说明请戳[这里](README.zh-CN.md)

Unity il2cpp reverse engineer

## Features

* Complete DLL restore (except code), can be used to extract `MonoBehaviour` and `MonoScript`
* Supports ELF, ELF64, Mach-O, PE, NSO and WASM format
* Supports Unity 5.3 - 2020
* Supports generate IDA and Ghidra scripts to help IDA and Ghidra better analyze il2cpp files
* Supports generate structures header file
* Supports Android memory dumped `libil2cpp.so` file to bypass protection
* Support bypassing simple PE protection

## Usage

Run `Il2CppDumper.exe` and choose the il2cpp executable file and `global-metadata.dat` file, then enter the information as prompted

The program will then generate all the output files in current working directory

### Command-line

```
Il2CppDumper.exe <executable-file> <global-metadata> <output-directory>
```

### Outputs

#### DummyDll

Folder, containing all restored dll files

Use [dnSpy](https://github.com/0xd4d/dnSpy), [ILSpy](https://github.com/icsharpcode/ILSpy) or other .Net decompiler tools to view

Can be used to extract Unity `MonoBehaviour` and `MonoScript`, for [UtinyRipper](https://github.com/mafaca/UtinyRipper), [UABE](https://7daystodie.com/forums/showthread.php?22675-Unity-Assets-Bundle-Extractor)

#### ida.py

For IDA

#### ida_with_struct.py

For IDA, read il2cpp.h file and apply structure information in IDA

#### il2cpp.h

structure information header file

#### ghidra.py

For Ghidra

#### script.json

For ida.py and ghidra.py

#### stringliteral.json

Contains all stringLiteral information

### Configuration

All the configuration options are located in `config.json`

Available options:

* `DumpMethod`, `DumpField`, `DumpProperty`, `DumpAttribute`, `DumpFieldOffset`, `DumpMethodOffset`, `DumpTypeDefIndex`
  * Whether to output these information to dump.cs

* `GenerateDummyDll`, `GenerateScript`
  * Whether to generate these things

* `ForceIl2CppVersion`, `ForceVersion`
  * If `ForceIl2CppVersion` is `true`, the program will use the version number specified in `ForceVersion` to choose parser for il2cpp binaries (does not affect the choice of metadata parser). This may be useful on some older il2cpp version (e.g. the program may need to use v16 parser on il2cpp v20 (Android) binaries in order to work properly)

## Common errors

#### `ERROR: Metadata file supplied is not valid metadata file.`  

Make sure you choose the correct file. Sometimes games may obfuscate this file for content protection purposes and so on. Deobfuscating of such files is beyond the scope of this program, so please **DO NOT** file an issue regarding to deobfuscating.

If your file is `libil2cpp.so` and you have a rooted Android phone, you can try my other project [Riru-Il2CppDumper](https://github.com/Perfare/Riru-Il2CppDumper), it can bypass this protection.

#### `ERROR: Can't use auto mode to process file, try manual mode.`

Please note that the executable file for the PC platform is `GameAssembly.dll` or `*Assembly.dll`

You can open a new issue and upload the file, I will try to solve.

#### `ERROR: This file may be protected.`

Il2CppDumper detected that the executable file has been protected, use `GameGuardian` to dump `libil2cpp.so` from the game memory, then use Il2CppDumper to load and follow the prompts, can bypass most protections.

If you have a rooted Android phone, you can try my other project [Riru-Il2CppDumper](https://github.com/Perfare/Riru-Il2CppDumper), it can bypass almost all protections.

## Credits

- Jumboperson - [Il2CppDumper](https://github.com/Jumboperson/Il2CppDumper)

Commit message:

added dynamic table generation for string decryption, removed try except(wtf, fix your stuff if it errors out...), removed some min max stuff from select structures.

README.md, after:

# Il2CppDumper
Modified version of Il2CppDumper allows you to dump methods of UserAssembly.dll of the game Genshin Impact

NOTICE: The global-metadata.dat of the game Genshin Impact has been encrypted, you need to dump decrypted file from memory before use this tool.


stole the mersenne twister class from some repo as i didnt like it using 32 bit integers, so the raw class is more useful... (credits below)


## Possible todo list???
- add sig scanning for static offsets


## Features

* Complete DLL restore (except code), can be used to extract `MonoBehaviour` and `MonoScript`
* Supports ELF, ELF64, Mach-O, PE, NSO and WASM format
* Supports Unity 5.3 - 2020
* Supports generate IDA and Ghidra scripts to help IDA and Ghidra better analyze il2cpp files
* Supports generate structures header file
* Supports Android memory dumped `libil2cpp.so` file to bypass protection
* Support bypassing simple PE protection

## Usage

Run `Il2CppDumper.exe` and choose the il2cpp executable file and `global-metadata.dat` file, then enter the information as prompted

The program will then generate all the output files in current working directory

### Command-line

```
Il2CppDumper.exe <executable-file> <global-metadata> <output-directory>
```

### Outputs

#### DummyDll

Folder, containing all restored dll files

Use [dnSpy](https://github.com/0xd4d/dnSpy), [ILSpy](https://github.com/icsharpcode/ILSpy) or other .Net decompiler tools to view

Can be used to extract Unity `MonoBehaviour` and `MonoScript`, for [UtinyRipper](https://github.com/mafaca/UtinyRipper), [UABE](https://7daystodie.com/forums/showthread.php?22675-Unity-Assets-Bundle-Extractor)

#### ida.py

For IDA

#### ida_with_struct.py

For IDA, read il2cpp.h file and apply structure information in IDA

#### il2cpp.h

structure information header file

#### ghidra.py

For Ghidra

#### script.json

For ida.py and ghidra.py

#### stringliteral.json

Contains all stringLiteral information

### Configuration

All the configuration options are located in `config.json`

Available options:

* `DumpMethod`, `DumpField`, `DumpProperty`, `DumpAttribute`, `DumpFieldOffset`, `DumpMethodOffset`, `DumpTypeDefIndex`
  * Whether to output these information to dump.cs

* `GenerateDummyDll`, `GenerateScript`
  * Whether to generate these things

* `ForceIl2CppVersion`, `ForceVersion`
  * If `ForceIl2CppVersion` is `true`, the program will use the version number specified in `ForceVersion` to choose parser for il2cpp binaries (does not affect the choice of metadata parser). This may be useful on some older il2cpp version (e.g. the program may need to use v16 parser on il2cpp v20 (Android) binaries in order to work properly)

## Common errors

#### `ERROR: Metadata file supplied is not valid metadata file.`  

Make sure you choose the correct file. Sometimes games may obfuscate this file for content protection purposes and so on. Deobfuscating of such files is beyond the scope of this program, so please **DO NOT** file an issue regarding to deobfuscating.

If your file is `libil2cpp.so` and you have a rooted Android phone, you can try my other project [Riru-Il2CppDumper](https://github.com/Perfare/Riru-Il2CppDumper), it can bypass this protection.

#### `ERROR: Can't use auto mode to process file, try manual mode.`

Please note that the executable file for the PC platform is `GameAssembly.dll` or `*Assembly.dll`

You can open a new issue and upload the file, I will try to solve.

#### `ERROR: This file may be protected.`

Il2CppDumper detected that the executable file has been protected, use `GameGuardian` to dump `libil2cpp.so` from the game memory, then use Il2CppDumper to load and follow the prompts, can bypass most protections.

If you have a rooted Android phone, you can try my other project [Riru-Il2CppDumper](https://github.com/Perfare/Riru-Il2CppDumper), it can bypass almost all protections.

## Credits

- Jumboperson - [Il2CppDumper](https://github.com/Jumboperson/Il2CppDumper)
- akiotakahashi - [MersenneTwister](https://github.com/akiotakahashi/MersenneTwister)
